README.md, before:

# 🧠 Diabetes Predictor (Machine Learning)

### 🛡️ Project Status & Context

| Status | Tech Stack | Type | Context |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **Active Development** | Python, Scikit-learn, Pandas | Predictive ML Model | **ISGA Academic Project** |

[![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/nveyounes/Diabetes-Predictor?style=for-the-badge&color=2ecc71)](https://github.com/nveyounes/Diabetes-Predictor)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/nveyounes/Diabetes-Predictor?style=for-the-badge&color=3498db)](LICENSE)
[![Repo Size](https://img.shields.io/github/repo-size/nveyounes/Diabetes-Predictor?style=for-the-badge&color=9b59b6)](https://github.com/nveyounes/Diabetes-Predictor)

---

## ⭐ Project Goal: Predicting Diabetes with ML

This repository contains a machine learning project developed for an academic report. The primary objective is to build and evaluate a predictive model that can determine the likelihood of a patient having diabetes based on specific medical features.

This project demonstrates the complete end-to-end machine learning workflow, from data cleaning and exploration to model training and evaluation.

### 📌 Key Concepts Demonstrated
* Data Preprocessing and Feature Engineering.
* Train-Test Data Splitting and Model Training.
* Model Evaluation using metrics like Accuracy, Precision, and Recall.
* Validation using a Confusion Matrix.

---

## 🛠️ Technology Stack

This analysis was conducted in a Jupyter Notebook using Python and its core data science libraries.

| Category | Technology | Purpose | Icon |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **Language** | Python | Primary programming language. | ![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3776AB?style=flat-square&logo=python&logoColor=white) |
| **Environment** | Jupyter | Interactive notebook for analysis. | ![Jupyter](https://img.shields.io/badge/Jupyter-F37626?style=flat-square&logo=jupyter&logoColor=white) |
| **Data** | Pandas | Data loading, manipulation, and cleaning. | ![Pandas](https://img.shields.io/badge/Pandas-150458?style=flat-square&logo=pandas&logoColor=white) |
| **ML** | Scikit-learn | Model training and evaluation. | ![Scikit-learn](httpsfs://img.shields.io/badge/Scikit--learn-F8991D?style=flat-square&logo=scikit-learn&logoColor=white) |
| **Plotting** | Matplotlib | (Used for the confusion matrix). | ![Matplotlib](https.img.shields.io/badge/Matplotlib-11557C?style=flat-square&logo=python&logoColor=white) |

---

## 📂 Data & Workflow

The project follows a standard machine learning pipeline, which is detailed in the `machine_learning.ipynb` notebook.

### 1. The Dataset
The model is trained on the **Pima Indians Diabetes Dataset**. It includes 8 medical predictor variables (e.g., 'Pregnancies', 'Glucose', 'BloodPressure', 'BMI') and one target variable, 'Outcome' (0 for Non-Diabetic, 1 for Diabetic).

### 2. Model Training
* The data is loaded and cleaned using **Pandas**.
* The dataset is split into a **training set (80%)** and a **testing set (20%)**.
* A predictive model (such as Logistic Regression) is trained on the training data.

### 3. Model Evaluation
The model's performance is evaluated on the unseen test data using metrics like **Accuracy, Precision, and Recall**. The confusion matrix is used to visualize the model's performance in distinguishing between diabetic (1) and non-diabetic (0) patients.

---

## 📸 How Data is processed 

**Note:** .

| Dataset Snapshot | Model Validation (Confusion Matrix) |
| :---: | :---: |
| ![Class Labels and Features](img/dataset.webp) | ![Data Splitting(img/validation.webp) |

---

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites
Make sure you have Python 3.x installed, along with the `pip` package manager.

### Installation

1.  **Clone the repository:**
    ```bash
    git clone [https://github.com/nveyounes/Diabetes-Predictor.git](https://github.com/nveyounes/Diabetes-Predictor.git)
    cd Diabetes-Predictor
    ```
2.  **Install the required Python libraries:**
    ```bash
    pip install jupyter pandas scikit-learn matplotlib seaborn
    ```

### Usage
To explore the analysis, run the Jupyter Notebook:

```bash
jupyter notebook machine_learning.ipynb
```
---

## 👥 Authors & Acknowledgements

This was an academic project for **ISGA (EDVANTIS Higher Education Group)**.

* **Farhat**
* **El Mortada**

### Supervised By:
* *Pr. ASRI*

Commit message:

Change project status to 'In Progress' and outline next steps
Updated project status and added next steps for development.

README.md, after:

# 🧠 Diabetes Predictor (Machine Learning)

### 🛡️ Project Status & Context

| Status | Tech Stack | Type | Context |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **In Progress** | Python, Scikit-learn, Pandas | Predictive ML Model | **ISGA Academic Project** |

[![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/nveyounes/Diabetes-Predictor?style=for-the-badge&color=2ecc71)](https://github.com/nveyounes/Diabetes-Predictor)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/nveyounes/Diabetes-Predictor?style=for-the-badge&color=3498db)](LICENSE)
[![Repo Size](https://img.shields.io/github/repo-size/nveyounes/Diabetes-Predictor?style=for-the-badge&color=9b59b6)](https://github.com/nveyounes/Diabetes-Predictor)

---

## ⭐ Project Goal: Predicting Diabetes with ML

This repository contains a machine learning project developed for an academic report. The primary objective is to build and evaluate a predictive model that can determine the likelihood of a patient having diabetes based on specific medical features.

This project demonstrates the end-to-end machine learning workflow, from data cleaning and exploration to model training and evaluation.

### 📌 Key Concepts Demonstrated
* Data Preprocessing and Feature Engineering.
* Train-Test Data Splitting and Model Training.
* Model Evaluation using metrics like Accuracy, Precision, and Recall.
* Validation using a Confusion Matrix.

---

## 🛠️ Technology Stack

This analysis was conducted in a Jupyter Notebook using Python and its core data science libraries.

| Category | Technology | Purpose | Icon |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **Language** | Python | Primary programming language. | ![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3776AB?style=flat-square&logo=python&logoColor=white) |
| **Environment** | Jupyter | Interactive notebook for analysis. | ![Jupyter](https://img.shields.io/badge/Jupyter-F37626?style=flat-square&logo=jupyter&logoColor=white) |
| **Data** | Pandas | Data loading, manipulation, and cleaning. | ![Pandas](https://img.shields.io/badge/Pandas-150458?style=flat-square&logo=pandas&logoColor=white) |
| **ML** | Scikit-learn | Model training and evaluation. | ![Scikit-learn](httpsfs://img.shields.io/badge/Scikit--learn-F8991D?style=flat-square&logo=scikit-learn&logoColor=white) |
| **Plotting** | Matplotlib | (Used for the confusion matrix). | ![Matplotlib](https.img.shields.io/badge/Matplotlib-11557C?style=flat-square&logo=python&logoColor=white) |

---

## 📂 Data & Workflow

The project follows a standard machine learning pipeline, which is detailed in the `machine_learning.ipynb` notebook.

### 1. The Dataset
The model is trained on the **Pima Indians Diabetes Dataset**. It includes 8 medical predictor variables (e.g., 'Pregnancies', 'Glucose', 'BloodPressure', 'BMI') and one target variable, 'Outcome' (0 for Non-Diabetic, 1 for Diabetic).

### 2. Model Training
* The data is loaded and cleaned using **Pandas**.
* The dataset is split into a **training set (80%)** and a **testing set (20%)**.
* A predictive model (such as Logistic Regression) is trained on the training data.

### 3. Model Evaluation
The model's performance is evaluated on the unseen test data using metrics like **Accuracy, Precision, and Recall**. The confusion matrix is used to visualize the model's performance in distinguishing between diabetic (1) and non-diabetic (0) patients.

---

## 📈 Next Steps

This project is under active development. Future plans include:
* **Model Tweaking:** Hyperparameter tuning to improve accuracy.
* **Feature Engineering:** Creating new features from the existing data to boost performance.
* **Trying Other Models:** Implementing and comparing different algorithms (e.g., SVM, Random Forest, XGBoost).
* **Deployment:** (Optional) Deploying the final model using a simple web framework like Flask or Streamlit.

---

## 📸 Project Visuals (Data & Results)

| Labels & Features | Data Splitting |
| :---: | :---: |
| ![Labels & Features](img/dataset.webp) | ![Data Splitting](imgimg/validation.webp) |

---

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites
Make sure you have Python 3.x installed, along with the `pip` package manager.

### Installation

1.  **Clone the repository:**
    ```bash
    git clone [https://github.com/nveyounes/Diabetes-Predictor.git](https://github.com/nveyounes/Diabetes-Predictor.git)
    cd Diabetes-Predictor
    ```
2.  **Install the required Python libraries:**
    ```bash
    pip install jupyter pandas scikit-learn matplotlib seaborn
    ```

### Usage
To explore the analysis, run the Jupyter Notebook:

```bash
jupyter notebook machine_learning.ipynb
```
---

## 👥 Authors & Acknowledgements

This was an academic project for **ISGA (EDVANTIS Higher Education Group)**.

* **Farhat**
* **El Mortada**

### Supervised By:
* **Pr. ASRI**
